[MUSIC]
[SOUND]
So
in this lecture,
we're going to talk about Secure Shell and
how we use to talk to the RaspberryPi and
to other machines remotely.
So Secure Shell ssh short
hand is the program
that allows you to access
the machine remotely.
So a shell, we've actually talked about
what a shell in a previous lecture, but
a shell is such a program that
accepts your commands and
interprets your commands.
So for instance if you type into
the shell, it's what you see at a console.
So If you type into the shell ls,
then it'll interpret that, and
ls means directory, so it'll give
you a directory listing in Linux.
Right, so ls is prompting you for that.
If you type cd that'll change directory,
and so on.
So a shell is just a basic program where
you type into it, it interprets a command,
it executes a command and
it prints out the results to you.
So that's all a shell is, and that
shell is what LXTerminal does for you.
LXTerminal runs a shell in Raspbian,
in Raspberry Pi.
So a secure shell is basically
a way to get a remote shell.
So Say you've got your Raspberry Pi
in your house and I'm at work and
I want to connect to your
Raspberry Pi at your house.
And so I want to have a shell
open up on my local machine,
say I'm sitting at a laptop.
I want to have a shell on my laptop
Laptop where when I type commands in,
it sends those commands
to the Raspberry Pi,
the Raspberry Pi executes the commands and
the results come back to my screen.
So I can be at a remote machine and
type in to it and
access it just like I was accessing my
Raspberry Pi remotely, or vice versa.
So I can be sitting at my Raspberry Pi
at home and that can be connected to my,
I can use secure shell to connect to
my computer on my desk in my office.
And so I can to my Raspberry Pi LS and
that will send that command
to my machine at my desk and
the directory on the machine at
my desk will appear on my screen.
So we're going to use secure shell for
that.
Now, just for a little background,
secure shell, it's predecessor really,
I'll call it it's predecessor,
is a program called Telnet.
Telnet, it's the same thing,
it's a remote shell but it's not secure.
So it doesn't encrypt
the traffic in transit.
So don't use telnet unless you do not
care if the world sees what you're
typing, okay?
So generally I never used Telnet now
except for experiments to try out things,
like with ssh try.
I'd tried a few, I've tested with it but
anything serious,
anything you really doing you
use Secure Shell instead Telnet.
So we're going to use Secure Shell.
So a secure shell's useful for
a lot of things.
Actually one good thing, especially for
Raspberry Pi, one really good thing about
using a Secure Shell with a Raspberry Pi
is that Raspberry Pi you'll notice
when you get it out of the box.
It doesn't have a screen, it doesn't
have a keyboard, mouse, any of that.
So, you need to connect a screen to it,
connect a keyboard, connect a mouse.
But if you use Secure Shell,
you don't have to do that.
You can just connect your Raspberry Pi
up to the network, wi-fi, say.
Then you can go to your laptop and connect
to the Raspberry Pi, and type into your
laptop and it will send it straight to
Raspberry Pi and you can see the results.
So you can use your Raspberry Pi without
connecting up a physical keyboard, and
mouse, and screen, if you use
Secure Shell to remotely connect to it.
Another thing that is really
useful to do with a Raspberry Pi.
I used it in making these slides.
When I was doing screen shots, some of
them I did on the Raspberry Pi itself, but
some of them I did remotely, and
you get the same screen shot
because it's Secure Shell running.
Okay, so whenever you do Secure Shell,
there are two machines involved,
and this is generally
how the Internet works.
You have this client-server model.
So, on the one side, you've got the Secure
Shell server, and the Secure Shell server
is a program that's running on the machine
that you want to access remotely.
So if I want to If I'm on my laptop,
I want to access the Raspberry Pi.
I would have to run a secure
shell server on the Raspberry Pi.
Then the secure shell client, that's
a program that's running on the machine
that I'm using to access the server.
So, in the case where, from my laptop,
I want to talk to my Raspberry Pi, but
I want to sit at my laptop,
the laptop is running Secure Shell client.
The Raspberry Pi is running
Secure Shell server.
So you have to have both those machines
involved in the communication, and
two different programs.
So basically the whole
Secure Shell protocol is
two programs talking to each
other across the network.
So the command you type into the client
will be sent to the server and
executed on the server.
And then the response is the results,
whatever text appears on the screen,
that is sent back to the client and
appears on the client's screen.
Now a basic secure shell,
which is what we'll be dealing with,
involves only a terminal interface,
basically a text base interface.
So it will look just like LX
terminal on the Raspberry Pi.
You get text.
No graphics, no GUI.
All right, now you can get secure
shell clients that do run GUI,
well not Secure Shell, but
you can get something equivalent.
Okay, we're not actually going to cover
that, we'll just do a text base right now,
because it's simpler.
But you can do a GUI too
Commonly I don't prefer GUI.
Two reasons, one thing I remember
all the text based commands.
So, I don't need the GUI, but second
that it slows things down because if you
send graphics, that takes a lot
of network bandwidth, right?
Relative to text,
I mean if you just send LS,
all you're sending is LS plus
a little bit of packaging.
If you have to send a image or something
like that that of course is going to take
a lot more networking bandwidth.
So I generally tend to use just
a text based Secure Shell anyway, and
that's what we'll be using here.
Okay, so requirements.
In order to run Secure Shell,
both machines have to be on the internet.
They both have to be connected
to the internet somehow,
both have addresses on the internet.
You must have a secure shell client
program running on the client machine.
So if my client machine is a laptop,
then I've gotta have a Secure Shell
client running on the laptop.
Now Secure Shell clients, if you download,
if you install the Linux application, or
Linux operating system on your machine,
or Mac OS X,
which is essentially a nice looking Linux.
Either one of those two will have secure
shell clients built in, right, by default.
But if you're running instead, if you're
running like on a Windows machine,
then you will have to download
a Secure Shell client of some kind.
Usually I use putty, P-U-T-T-Y.
Okay, next up.
Next requirement,
the machine being controlled has to
be running a Secure Shell server.
So not only does it have to
a Secure Shell server program installed,
that has to be executed, okay?
It has to be executing when
you want to do the connection.
So this is actually default on the
Raspberry Pi, on Raspbian, specifically.
When you start Raspbian,
it has a secure shell server.
Daemon is what they're called in
Unix that's running by default.
So as soon as you boot your Raspberry Pi,
in the background one of your background
processes is a Secure Shell server that's
just sitting there running waiting for
connections okay?
So Raspberry that's default,
other Linux's so
let's say you downloaded
on my Linux box at work.
When I download the next side of that,
it has Secure Shell server program but
it's not running by default.
So I have to go and set it up.
I have to go and change the boot script so
that it starts it running at boot time.
Actually now I have set that up recently.
So yeah, my machine at work, it has
that set up, but by default it wouldn't.
But Raspberry Pi does.
Also if you have Secure Shell if you're
trying to do it on a Windows machine,
to run a server you have to download and
install Secure Shell Server first for
your Windows machine.
And then set it up that
it runs at boot time,
runs as soon as you start a machine if
you're doing it on a Windows machine.
Okay another thing is that
on the server machine,
the machine that you're connecting to
you have to have an account, okay?
So you can't just blindly
connect to a server.
The server's going to ask you for
a username and a password.
So you have to have a valid
account credentials, valid
username password on the server machine or
else this whole mechanism won't work.
Because the whole point of Secure Shell
is to verify the credentials, right?
To check that you really are entitled
to connect to this machine and
send this data, receive this data.
Oh, yes.
And one other thing.
Any firewall needs to
allow Secure Shell access.
If there is a firewall then it has
to be opened to up allow to allow
Secure Shell access, which by default,
that firewall port is shutdown and I have
to ask the administrator to turn that on.
But it's a public network,
it shouldn't be a problem.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]